So let's see the first of these three new
components, we going to add in action.
Let's see the first,
the Web Browser API in action.
So we going to roll through this code by
line and doing so we going to introduce
the first of these new features of
the platform in which we run our code.
The web browser API is going to introduce
it as we walk through this code line
by line.
We're going to discover already,
we can already figure out our
regular model doesn't explain this.
We will be able to explain it fairly
reasonably just by adding the top one of
that list there.
So, why do we take it off.
Let's kick it off with the very
first line we're executing our code.
As soon as we start executing our code,
we create a global
>> Execution context
>> Good, exactly.
Actually, that's in the morning.
We create a global
>> Execution context Thanks Andrea.
voluble tone Andrea.
Alright, so we enter the global.
How am I going to make sure I
don't run out of space here?
Enter the global.
We have our global memory, here it is.
Global memory and what's the very first
thing inside the global memory, Andrea?
>> Say that again, I'm sorry.
>> What's the very first thing we do,
sorry,
what's the very first we
do in executing our code?
Create a global execution context,
what's the first line say to do, Andrea?
>> It says to add printHello function?
>> Yeah, so how do we,
what's a posh way, Shelby,
of saying add the printHello function?
Declare or define, exactly, Art, yeah.
Declare or define,
we could say add, create.
But if you do use,
I love using the intruder terms.
But if you do, say this,
>> Let's add declare,
always make sure you say all the,
the words at once.
Not all words, but
many of the words for it at once.
Cuz then you can both let
the person you're explaining to in
an interview show that you
know the technical term, but
also that you know intuitively
what that actually means.
I tell you, a lot of developers they say,
I declare a function.
>> They're not clear that that's
storing that function definition in
memory as the value
associate with that label.
They're not clear of that.
So I don't mind the intuitive but
always have the precise as well.
So we declare the function printHello.
And it is the whole function definition.
There it is, perfect.
All right, so instantly we want to,
our next line,
which Andrea what does it say,
that next line?
What does it look like it's saying?
>> It says that Time out and for.
>> So what does prime tell us?
>> To execute.
>> Yeah, to execute the set timer.
>> And to put down the call.
>> Exactly.
That normally means,
exactly push the call stack.
Now.
>> We are going to see with our built in
functions.
Att the call stack represents
our calls to our functions.
If you go into Chrome Dev tools and
look at calls to functions you will see
that the functions that actually get
represented in the call stack are the ones
that create execution contexts in
the sense that we are declaring a function
multiply by two and we call it.
>> We are creating a typical
execution content for
a function that we as
a developer declared.
We will not see in our call stacking crew
in dev tools, A call to set timeout.
That's something already,
what's going on here.
So let's just think about this.
We are going to call this set timeout.
And we're gonna parse it,
our print.Hello function, there it is.
And this value of 0.
Now we said that in this
scenario here the console.logs
are gonna go in which order, Katie?
Me first and then print hello.
>> Me first and then print hello.
Yeah, me first then hello.
Seems very odd.
So already we know that when call set
timeout, normally when call a function and
we pass in it's callback function
We'll execute set time out.
In we go, we'll call printHello inside,
and before we ever get out of
set time out, we finish running
printHello so we'll have console logged.
So this suggests, when I call set
time out, do you think, Katie,
that I'm running printHello
inside of set time outs?
No.
>> It can't be right?
Because otherwise how do I get straight
out of say it time and move on?
I'm not running print hello.
Say it time doesn't behave like
a typical function being called.
We're going to say, rather than it
behaving the way we're used to [INAUDIBLE]
context with a variable environment inside
of it It ain't gonna do that stuff.
It's gonna do something
completely different.
It's going to we've said there were three
parts of our synchronized JavaScript land.
We are now going to discover a new part
of our JavaScript land, or not even our
JavaScript land, of our environment
in which JavaScript is being run.
JavaScript isn't run in isolation.
JavaScript is run,
JavaScript is run in a web browser.
And so when I run my JavaScript,
I'm actually dealing
with some things outside
of my JavaScript land.
And one of them.
Is our web browser APIs.
Web browser APIs.
To be really clear,
this is not like that Spotify API,
except in the sense that it's
a bunch of functionality that
we can interact with,
which is like any API,
it's a bunch of functionality or
data we can interact with.
These are APIs.
Let's call them almost features.
These are features or
functionality of our web browser.
Our web browser is a JavaScript runtime.
We can run JavaScript.
This is the JavaScript runtime, and
a bunch of other built-in tools.
And one of them
In that single JavaScript thread.
But it ain't gonna be doing anything
else while that time is running.
So instead, JavaScript is run in
an environment in which we can spin up in
the background much more flexible
number of threads doing stuff like,
what do you know?
Creating.
A background timer.
Not in Java script.
But using our web browser
background features.
So we can spin up a timer and
what happens when I run set time out?
You know what happens.
I don't get involved in Java script lang.
When I run set timer
it's a built in function.
It speaks.
It doesn't behave in a typical way.
It instead speaks to our web browser APIs,
web browser API.
Which one?
Well, of course, timer, and
it creates A timer, and here it is.
It creates a timer,
All the way down in our web browser API.
And this is why we call them APIs,
because they're not part
of JavaScript,
they're an interface to our web browser.
Remember, I stands for interface.
An interface with our web browser.
When we run setTimer behind the scenes,
it's making a communication.
It's interfacing with our web browser and
saying, folk,
do you mind setting up
a timer in the background?
And remember, this one, well, I don't
know if we're starting with this one.
Let's start with this one.
This one has a property of 0 milliseconds.
So this timer is going
to instantly complete.
This timer's gonna instantly
complete in a moment.
But for now,
there's a timer being created and
we now have to Pass along,
because we also.
Wait, okay.
Time is being created down here and
the zero has been passed as a property,
but also, what's the other core piece
of information the timer needs to know?
>> What to do when the time's out.
>> What do to when the time out,
which is So it has associated
with it a reference to
that print Hello function.
So it nows that okay, when I'm finished,
this is the function
that I'm going to go and
speak to, I'm going to go and run.
[SOUND] There we go.
And then it has, I guess,
a column saying complete or not.
And what do we know initially?
It is, of course, not complete.
Okay, that's now been set up.
Set timeout is now complete, and
we go onto our global execution context,
where what do we encounter?
What's the next line we encounter Griffin?
>> That would be the console.
>> It would be the console log.
Let's just create a console for ourselves
over here and what's the console log?
>> Me first?
>> Me first.
So what's our first thing in our console?
And now, what happens?
Our timer completes in the background,
our timer completes in the background.
And so what is gonna happen,
do we think, Art,
when our timer completes
in the background?
How does that happen?
How do I start executing
the printHello function?
Go back to the global.
>> It's gonna go back to our call,
it's gonna push our call to printHello,
somehow, we'll see in a minute how,
across to our call stack.
Where we then, so we're in global,
we're in global, and
on the completion of the timer we push the
call to print hello to the call stat and
well if we're calling print
hello Andrea what do we create?
A new
>> Execution context.
>> Yeah well now we've back
in regular javascript land.
Print Hello, print contents,
by the way, in global.
Look at that.
Where is print Hello being executed?
It ain't being executed
inside setTimeout is it?
setTimeout didn't do any execution
print Hello, it just span up.
It spoke, it's like setTimeout is almost
like Make an API request in the sense
that it's speaking outside of JavaScript.
It says go to speak to this built in
feature of the web browser, a timer.
Where it spun a timer with zero
milliseconds wait a function and complete.
But this was all happening separately
while set time [INAUDIBLE] set okay we're
done and moved on And in the mean time,
hit console log at me first.
This got hit before we then
completed the timer and
passed print hello up to the call stack.
Call print hello which then did what?
Dave, what does print hello do?
Print hello.
>> [LAUGH] Brilliant.
And look at that.
Against all the odds,
against all the odds,
our me first got printed before
our print hello fuction ran.
Because we span up our web
browser API over here.
Now, we're gonna see in a second.
Hold on.
Why even though it took Sarah
milliseconds did we end up running
our console log me first?
We're gonna see that in a moment, but
at this point let's have thumb and
we'll walk through it one more time.
I declared a function, printHello.
I then ran setTimeout.
Parsed in printHello functionality,
which, by the way,
the design of setTimeout,
where does that come from?
Well, we go and
look in the documentation of JavaScript.
It says, the first thing that gets
parsed is a function that will be run On
the completion of a timer of the length of
the value that gets passed to the second
parameter, okay?
You could look at the documentation
which set time out.
The first thing that gets
passed is functionality,
then we run on the completion
of a timer of this length.
And we find well, we don't run
print hello inside set time out.
No, no, no,
that would block the thread Instead we,
in setTimeout, speak to a whole separate
area outside of JavaScript land.
Up here is JavaScript,
this is just the web browser.
And there, there's a feature called Timer,
no problem.
We make Timer do its stuff.
It's a very short timer, don't get me
wrong, it's a zero-millisecond timer.
Attached to it is a function or
a reference of the function that
was passed in a set time out.
So we take into this,
we take a timer and we take,
we pass in a function and this
important information into this timer,
there's important information
in zero milliseconds.
There's the function it's not complete
initial, it's not complete initially And
then Set Timeout's done it's job.
Set Timeout's done it's job of speaking
to the web browser API land, and
so it moves straight on and
the next line is console log me first.
And so we instantly console log me first.
We didn't wait a second.
And then Only then do we see,
timer's completed, and
this function is now ready to be executed.
Well, it's gotta get back into JavaScript.
So how do you get it back into JavaScript?
Well, you push it to the call stack.
And so it gets called, we create that
function execution context inside of which
it says, console.log("Hello"):.
And so our ordering This ends up being,
this is first and this is second.
And we could never have guessed
that from looking at this code in
the conventional sense.